									Data Structures
									/			\
								   /			 \
					   			  \/             \/
					   (Continous data 		(Linked data 
					   structures)			structures)
					   

	Types of Continous Data Structures:
	1). Union
	2). Structure
	3). Array
	4). Hash Table

	Types of Linked Data Structures:

	1). Linked List -

		A linked list is a collection of structures ordered not by their physical placement in memory but by logical links that are stored as part of the data in the structure itself. It is not necessary that it should be stored in the adjacent memory locations. Every structure has a data field and an address field. The Address field contains the address of its successor.
		Linked list can be singly, doubly or multiply linked and can either be linear or circular.
		Basic Properties
		Objects, called nodes, are linked in a linear sequence
		A reference to the first node of the list is always kept. This is called the 'head' or 'front'.

	2). Linked Tree -

		As a data structure, a linked tree is a group of nodes, where each node has a value and a list of references to other nodes (its children). This data structure actually defines a directed graph, because it may have loops or several references to the same node, just as a (corrupt) linked list may have a loop. Thus there is also the requirement that no two references point to the same node (that each node has at most a single parent, and in fact exactly one parent, except for the root), and a tree that violates this is "corrupt"



The implementation of a data structure usually requires writing a set of procedures that create and manipulate instances of that structure. The efficiency of a data structure cannot be analyzed separately from those operations.





Linked Data Structure:
A linked data structure is a data structure which consists of a set of data records (nodes) linked together and organized by references (links or pointers).
In linked data structures, the links are usually treated as special data types that can only be dereferenced or compared for equality. 
Linked data structures are thus contrasted with arrays and other data structures that require performing arithmetic operations on pointers. This distinction holds even when the nodes are actually implemented as elements of a single array, and the references are actually array indices: as long as no arithmetic is done on those indices, the data structure is essentially a linked one.
Linking can be done in two ways - Using dynamic allocation and using array index linking.

Advantages and disadvantages:

- Advantages against arrays:

Compared to arrays( or other continous data structure), linked data structures allow more flexibility in organizing the data and in allocating space for it. 

In arrays( or struct), the size of the array must be specified precisely at the beginning, this can be a potential waste of memory. 

A linked data structure is built dynamically and never needs to be bigger than the programmer requires. It also requires no guessing in terms of how much space you must allocate when using a linked data structure. This is a feature that is key in saving wasted memory.

In array, the array elements have to be in contiguous(connected and sequential) portion of memory. But in linked data structure, the reference to each node gives us the information where to find out the next one.

The nodes of a linked data structure can also be moved individually to different locations without affecting the logical connections between them, unlike arrays. With due care, a process can add or delete nodes to one part of a data structure even while other processes are working on other parts.

On the other hand, access to any particular node in a linked data structure requires following a chain of references that stored in it. If the structure has n nodes, and each node contains at most b links, there will be some nodes that cannot be reached in less than logb n steps. For many structures, some nodes may require worst case up to n−1 steps. In contrast, many array data structures allow access to any element with a constant number of operations, independent of the number of entries.

Broadly the implementation of these linked data structure is through dynamic data structures. It gives us the chance to use particular space again. Memory can be utilized more efficiently by using this data structures. Memory is allocated as per the need and when memory is not further needed, deallocation is done.

- General disadvantages:
Linked data structures may also incur in substantial memory allocation overhead (if nodes are allocated individually)and frustrate memory paging and processor caching algorithms (since they generally have poor locality of reference).

In some cases, linked data structures may also use more memory (for the link fields) than competing array structures.This is because linked data structures are not contiguous. Instances of data can be found all over in memory, unlike arrays.

In arrays, nth element can be accessed immediately, while in a linked data structure we have to follow multiple pointers so element access time varies according to where in the structure the element is.